Q-Learning is an
off-policy algorithm.
But so far, we've only seen
off-policy algorithms that
use important sampling.
How can Q-learning be off
policy without using
important sampling?
Let's dive in and find out.
By the end of this video,
you will understand
how Q-learning
can be off-policy without using
important sampling and
be able to describe
how learning on-policy or
off-policy might affect
performance in control.
Recall that an agent estimates
its value function according to
expected returns under
their target policy.
They actually behave according
to their behavior policy.
When the target policy and
behavior policy are the same,
the agent is learning on-policy,
otherwise, the agent is
learning off-policy.
Sarsa is an on-policy algorithm.
In Sarsa, the agent
bootstraps off
of the value of the action
it's going to take next,
which is sampled from
its behavior policy.
Q-learning instead,
bootstraps off of
the largest action value
in its next state.
This is like sampling
an action under an estimate of
the optimal policy rather
than the behavior policy.
Since Q-learning learns about
the best action it could
possibly take rather than
the actions it actually takes,
it is learning off-policy.
Whenever you see a reinforced
learning algorithm,
a natural question to ask is,
"What are the target
in behavior policies?"
Q-learning's target
policy is always
greedy with respect to
its current values.
However, is behavior policy
can be anything that
continues to visit all state
action pairs during learning.
One possible policy
is epsilon greedy.
The difference here
between the target and
behavior policies confirms
that Q-learning is off-policy.
But if Q-learning
learns off-policy,
why don't we see any
important sampling ratios?
It is because the
agent is estimating
action values with
unknown policy.
It does not need
important sampling ratios to
correct for the difference
in action selection.
The action value function
represents the returns
following each action
in a given state.
The agents target
policy represents
the probability of taking
each action in a given state.
Putting these two
elements together,
the agent can calculate
the expected return
under its target policy
from any given state,
in particular,
the next state, S_t plus 1.
Q-learning uses
exactly this technique
to learn off-policy.
Since the agents
target policies greedy,
with respect to
its action values,
all non-maximum actions
have probability 0.
As a result, the expected return
from that state is
equal to a maximal action value
from that state.
Earlier, we talked about how
Q-learning doesn't iterate
between policy evaluation
and policy improvement,
but rather learns
the optimal values directly.
Directly learning
the optimal value function
and policy sounds great,
but there are some subtleties
that make it less
desirable in specific situations.
Let's look at this cliff
walking example
to understand some
of those subtleties.
The cliff walking environment is
an undiscounted
episodic gridworld
with a cliff on the bottom edge.
On most steps, the agent
receives a reward of minus 1.
Falling off the cliff
however sends agent back to
the start and gives
a reward of minus 100.
We compare Q-learning
and Sarsa in
this environment with
an epsilon of 0.1.
Here's the average
performance of Q-learning.
Since Q-learning learns
the optimal value function,
it quickly learns that
an optimal policy travels
right alongside the cliff.
However, since his actions
or epsilon greedy,
traveling alongside the cliff
occasionally results and
falling off of the cliff.
Sarsa learns about
his current policy,
taking into account the effect of
epsilon greedy action selection.
Accounting for occasional
exploratory actions,
it learns to take the longer
but more reliable path.
They usually avoids randomly
falling into the cliff.
Because of it's safer path,
Sarsa is able to reach
the goal more reliably.
In this video, we showed
that Q-learning is
off-policy without using
important sampling,
and that learning
on-policy or off-policy
may perform differently in
control depending on the task.